# ConnecticutRealEstateAnalysis
----this is a data warehouse written in sql with ETL in sql and python.

# About this project

# The housing price has been declining in 2022, and the pending home sales nationwide have declined 2% with existing home sales reduced by 0.4% since July 2022 and 19.99% compared to last year. Due to the ongoing global health crisis, labor shortage, layoffs, inflations, and difficulties in the global supply chain, many people are holding low expectations toward the economy and housing market in the coming year. The increased layoffs lead many people to believe the economic downturn in the latter 2022 and upcoming 2023 may be comparable to the economic crisis in 2008. 
# To have an overview of the near future to build proper plans to maintain security during an economic downturn, it is helpful to reference history to have an overview of the near future other than more savings and less spending. For either real estate agencies, buyers and sellers, or market analysts, access to reliable data from retrospective and present perspectives is essential for analysis and reports purposes to fulfill management duties. Moreover, analysis with reliable data sources can support businesses and individuals in better decision-making and regulate risks in different situations.
# Considering the complexity of using nationwide statistics, this project will focus on the real estate sales and income statistics in Connecticut since the state is one of the most densely populated states with dynamic real estate sales. The purpose of this data warehouse project is to analyze Connecticut real estate sales and income statistics from 2011 to 2020 to analyze the impacts of the 2008 economic crisis on the local housing market ten years afterward. Also, the analysis can help to study the response of the housing market to economic downturns and changes in income levels. Accordingly, the Connecticut Real Estate Analysis data warehouse is designed to support the analysis of home sales in Connecticut from multiple dimensions, such as income levels, home sales, towns, and time hierarchy.
# This anlysis using the Connecticut Real Estate data warehouse gives us the facts that the real estate market in Connecticut is a sellers’ market, and the most demanding residential types are single-family and condo. Although home sales were very low in 2010 compared to 2020, the sales bounced back gradually from 2012 until the small peak in 2015. Afterward, the sales maintained the same level until the peak in 2020. Also, the economic crisis in 2008 did not impact the income level in Connecticut much and the income level in Connecticut has maintained stable a level from 2011 to 2020. Finally, based on the sales conditions in 2020 and 2021, COVID-19 does not have negative impacts on house sales in the local market. Although the economic expectation for the coming year is not optimistic so far, Connecticut is still a great place to invest in real estate for its excellent sales ratio and metropolitan resources near New York City and Boston, as well as local towns. For people who are willing to move to Connecticut, the income level compared to home sales prices is good for the ones who are looking for stable income, good education resources, and entertainment.  Overall, Connecticut is excellent for people who want to invest in real estate or looking to settle down for life forward. 
